Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to another Dooralong on discourse on Ruby.
And in this video, we are going to be covering the introduction to HaShas.
So what is a hash?
Basically, a hash is a data structure that store items by the associated keys.
Now, this is contrasted against arrays which store items by an ordered index.
Entries in a hash are often referred to as the key value pairs.
This creates an associative representation of the data.
Most commonly, a hash is created using symbols, eskies and any data type as values.
All key value pairs in a hash are surrounded by curly brackets and by a comma separated.
Now hash can be created with two syntaxes.
The first index is basically the Ohlson text, which is not normally used nowadays.
It is basically something, including the curly brackets.
And in that we have a column.
Then you write in the name and equal to sign an arrow sign and then you have to write in the value.
Now this Namoa here is basically going to be the key.
And this whatever is stored in this quotation marks is going to be the value.
Not this is not necessarily that this should be something encoded in quotation marks.
Well, here you can just write in a value, let's say two, three, four.
And that hasn't to be quoted in the quotation mark.
Then comes the news index, which is mostly used nowadays, and that is also very simple, just the
column is moved from this position to this position, so bright in the name, which is going to serve
as the key, the neutral in the column and then the quotation marks.
Well, here you have to write in whatever you want to store in the sky you have specified.
Right, Ohio, which is going to be the value for this Guyenne, whatever you want to access this while
you're here, you can just use this key whenever I need it.
So now I'm moving on to the difference between Arah and hashes.
Now, it can be a bit overwhelming when you look at all the different ways there are to represent any
kind of data with the help, of course.
Now, you don't need to feel any kind of don't necessarily pick these things up in small parts and apply
them, then add more little things as you move along.
Now, it's impossible to know everything in the beginning, so put some effort into learning a few things
well and then build from there.
Now, when deciding whether to use a hash or an IRA, what do you have to do is that you have to ask
yourself a few question.
The first question is that does the data need to be associated with a specific label?
If yes, use a hash, not if the data does not have a natural label, then typically an array will work
fine.
The second question you need to ask is that does the order of whatever data you want to store in matters
or not?
Now, if the order matters, then use an array, whereas if you do not want something to be in order,
then you can simply go on with hashes and hashes.
Do not require any kind of I don't know.
The next question you need to ask yourself is that do I need a stack or a queue structure?
Now, Arabs are good at mimicking simple first in first out queues or last in first out stacks.
So you can just go on with errors in that case.
And as you can just go on with hashes.
Now, as you grew, you as a developer, your familiarity with these two data structure will naturally
affect which one you reach for when looking to solve a specific problem.
Now the key is to practice and experiment with each to find out what data structure work best in certain
situations.
So all you need to do is that you need to ask yourself some questions, which I have explained, and
then simply you can go on with the way things are going to go.
So let's see some examples and apply the syntax we have covered in the previous slide.
So let's move on to what, Ed?
So the first thing you have to do over here is that you have to initialize the hash.
Now, how that is going to be done, you have to just write in a variable, let's say X, you have to
write in the curly brackets and then the curly brackets.
Where you have to do is that you have to initialize a pair of key and value.
Now, whatever the key is going to be, it is going to store the value of the column.
So you have to write in the key.
Let's say we have some named Wahhab and in this name, which is going to serve as the key, we have
got a value, let's say my name.
So now all you have to do is that you have to store it in a key and value.
So to do so, what do you have to do is that you have to write in that each do.
So we are going to write an X dot each.
And we are going to do with it is that we are going to create a pair of key and value.
And downhill, what you can do simply is that you can just ride inputs, you can use the interpellation
concept of a hill and you can just ride in the key and you can just ride in is.
And you can just ride in the value, so you can just and there's because you have this logo, local
history and it as well, just run this code and you can see that it has this name is Ulmarra.
Now, what is basically going on over here is that for the first iteration, when this do end operates,
it is going to take in the first value from this X, which is basically storing the hashes for us.
So it is going to have this name O'Haire as the key and it is going to have the value, which is the
value for this name, which is my name.
So it is going to store my name in this value variable and the key that is name will help in this key
variable.
Now using interpolation, what we can simply do is that we can just bring down the value for this guy.
We can print out the value for this value and we can just end it out and put statement is going to put
it right over here and it is going to say a name is Matt.
So that is the simplest way of how you can initialize a hash and you can just store it in a key value
pair and you can just print it out.
Now you can have multiple key value pairs in a single variable as well.
So let's say we have one more Aubagio that is each.
And let's say you've got 20 oakhill, so all you have to do is now simply run it and as you can see
that it's his name is this and it just is.
So you can have one more here.
Let's say it is qualification, a colon.
And you can just write and graduate while Ronda's and it is going to say your name is a matter of ages
20 and qualification is graduate, so that's how basically it is working.
And in the first iteration, it works for this key value pair for the second iteration.
Now, the key stores this age, the value store, this value for the age, the third iteration is going
to have this view you as the key and a graduate as the value.
And every time the statement works, it is going to put these items right here on the front row here.
So basically, that is how you can use hashes and you can just print the values for them.
So order here does not matter at all.
You can simply go on with any kind of order you want, which is very opposite to what is basically used
in arrays.
So I hope you have got all this.
So that's it with this tutorial.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.